GHH/Linux Exploit Dev/Binary, Dynamic Information-Gathering Tools/objdump.md, before:

---
tags:
  - ghh
  - lab3
aliases:
---

- command line disassembler
- gets information about executable files and objects

## How to use
```terminal
objdump -R <executable>
```
- `-R` displays list of functions in the [[GHH/Linux Exploits/GOT]]
![[Pasted image 20240707092702.png]]
- `puts()`  has this address: **`...4008`**
### Locate the Address called to get the Function
```terminal
objdump -M intel -d -j .plt <executable> | grep <unique address identifier>
``` 
- `-M intel` switches to [[Assembly#AT&T vs NASM|Intel Assembler Syntax]] instead of [[Assembly#AT&T|AT&T]]
- `-d` = `disassemble`
- `-j .plt` specifies the [[Coding Basics/Memory/Sections]] we want to display
![[Pasted image 20240707093228.png]]

```terminal
objdump -d ./hello.out | grep 4008
```
![[Pasted image 20240707093244.png]]
-> Syntax Differences become visible([[Assembly#AT&T vs NASM]])
-> **`1040`** is address called by the [[GHH/Linxux Eploits/PLT]]
### Find call to `puts()`
- in `.text` [[Sections#.text|section]]
```terminal
objdump -M intel -d -j .text <executable> | grep <unique part of address>
```
-> see aforementioned syntax explanation [[objdump#Locate the Address called to get the Function|here]]

Commit message:

desktop-arch -> 2024-07-07 10:03:46 -> Backup
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/templater-obsidian/data.json
GHH/Linux Exploit Dev/Binary, Dynamic Information-Gathering Tools/objdump.md
GHH/Linux Exploits/GOT.md
GHH/Linux Exploits/PLT.md
Images/Pasted image 20240707095423.png
Images/Pasted image 20240707100009.png
Images/Pasted image 20240707100255.png
Settings/Templates/Grey Hat Hacking Template.md

GHH/Linux Exploit Dev/Binary, Dynamic Information-Gathering Tools/objdump.md, after:

---
tags:
  - ghh
  - lab3
aliases:
---

- command line disassembler
- gets information about executable files and objects

## How to use
```terminal
objdump -R <executable>
```
- `-R` displays list of functions in the [[GHH/Linux Exploits/GOT]]
![[Pasted image 20240707092702.png]]
- `puts()`  has this address: **`...4008`**
### Locate the Address called to get the Function
```terminal
objdump -M intel -d -j .plt ./<executable> | grep <unique address identifier>
``` 
- `-M intel` switches to [[Assembly#AT&T vs NASM|Intel Assembler Syntax]] instead of [[Assembly#AT&T|AT&T]]
- `-d` = `disassemble`
- `-j .plt` specifies the [[Coding Basics/Memory/Sections]] we want to display
![[Pasted image 20240707093228.png]]

```terminal
objdump -d ./hello.out | grep 4008
```
![[Pasted image 20240707093244.png]]
-> Syntax Differences become visible([[Assembly#AT&T vs NASM]])
-> **`1040`** is address called by the [[GHH/Linux Exploits/PLT]]
### Find call to `puts()`
- in `.text` [[Sections#.text|section]]
```terminal
objdump -M intel -d -j .text ./<executable> | grep <unique part of address>
```
-> see aforementioned syntax explanation [[objdump#Locate the Address called to get the Function|here]]
![[Pasted image 20240707095423.png]]
- **`11cf`** is the address pointing to `puts()`

### Finding References to Constant Strings
```terminal
string -tx <executable>
```
- `-t` = radix
- `-x`  = hexadecimal
- together -> prints offset within the file at the beginning of each string
![[Pasted image 20240707100009.png]]

```terminal
objdump -M intel -d ./<executable>  | grep -C1 <offset>
```
- `-C1` displays x=1 surrounding lines -> helpful to grasp context
![[Pasted image 20240707100255.png]]
